Blogpost for honor PV reclaim policy fix moving to Beta (#46890)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-08-16-Honor-PV-Reclaim-Policy-Beta.md

---
layout: blog

> title: 'Kubernetes 1.31: Prevent PersistentVolume leaks when deleting out of order'

Reviewer: (nit)
We typically write titles in Title Case.

backed by volumes allocated by the storage backend.

Normally, if the volume is to be deleted, then the expectation is to delete the
PVC for a bound PV-PVC pair. However, there are no restrictions on deleting a PV
before deleting a PVC.

First, I'll demonstrate the behavior for clusters running an older version of Kubernetes.

#### Retrieve a PVC that is bound to a PV

Retrieve an existing PVC `example-vanilla-block-pvc`
```
kubectl get pvc example-vanilla-block-pvc
```
The following output shows the PVC and its bound PV; the PV is shown under the `VOLUME` column:
```
NAME                        STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS               AGE
example-vanilla-block-pvc   Bound    pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da   5Gi        RWO            example-vanilla-block-sc   19s
```

#### Delete PV

When I try to delete a bound PV, the kubectl session blocks and the `kubectl` 
tool does not return back control to the shell; for example:

```
kubectl delete pv pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da
```

```
persistentvolume "pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da" deleted
^C
```

> #### Retrieving the PV:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Retrieving the PV
```

```

```
Error from server (NotFound): persistentvolumes "pvc-6791fdd4-5fad-438e-a7fb-16410363e3da" not found
```

Although the PV is deleted, the underlying storage resource is not deleted and
needs to be removed manually.

To sum up, the reclaim policy associated with the PersistentVolume is currently
ignored under certain circumstances. For a `Bound` PV-PVC pair, the ordering of PV-PVC
deletion determines whether the PV reclaim policy is honored. The reclaim policy
is honored if the PVC is deleted first; however, if the PV is deleted prior to
deleting the PVC, then the reclaim policy is not exercised. As a result of this behavior,
the associated storage asset in the external infrastructure is not removed.

## PV reclaim policy with Kubernetes v1.31

The new behavior ensures that the underlying storage object is deleted from the backend when users attempt to delete a PV manually.

#### How to enable new behavior?

To take advantage of the new behavior, you must have upgraded your cluster to the v1.31 release of Kubernetes
and run the CSI [`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner) version `5.0.1` or later.

#### How does it work?

> For CSI volumes, the new behavior is achieved by adding a finalizer `external-provisioner.volume.kubernetes.io/finalizer`

Reviewer: Could link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/ here.

```
kubectl get pv pvc-a7b7e3ba-f837-45ba-b243-dec7d8aaed53 -o yaml
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  annotations:
    pv.kubernetes.io/provisioned-by: csi.vsphere.vmware.com
  creationTimestamp: "2021-11-17T19:28:56Z"
  finalizers:
  - kubernetes.io/pv-protection
  - external-provisioner.volume.kubernetes.io/finalizer
  name: pvc-a7b7e3ba-f837-45ba-b243-dec7d8aaed53
  resourceVersion: "194711"
  uid: 087f14f2-4157-4e95-8a70-8294b039d30e
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  capacity:
    storage: 1Gi
  claimRef:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
    name: example-vanilla-block-pvc
    namespace: default
    resourceVersion: "194677"
    uid: a7b7e3ba-f837-45ba-b243-dec7d8aaed53
  csi:
    driver: csi.vsphere.vmware.com
    fsType: ext4
    volumeAttributes:
      storage.kubernetes.io/csiProvisionerIdentity: 1637110610497-8081-csi.vsphere.vmware.com
      type: vSphere CNS Block Volume
    volumeHandle: 2dacf297-803f-4ccc-afc7-3d3c3f02051e
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Delete
  storageClassName: example-vanilla-block-sc
  volumeMode: Filesystem
status:
  phase: Bound
```

> The finalizer prevents the PV object from being removed from the

Reviewer: Could link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/:
```suggestion
The [finalizer](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/) prevents this
PersistentVolume from being removed from the
```
